# PyAutoCompile

# Version 2.0
This version was forked from Version 1.0 (see below). A simplified AutoCompile interface that is only supported for Windows (no .sh file) and does not contain a .html preview. The console has been modified to include a terminal in put, so that missing packages may be installed upon first time use.

# Version 1.0
Originally designed as a means to display circuit diagrams (written as a Python script employing SchemDraw) and automatically update the diagrams in real time as the code changes. The project has since expanded to become a general-purpose real-time compilation utility that can compile any language (compilation directions are defined in a user-defined batch script) and display the results of the compilation in any arbitrary format (the compilation result is displayed in a webbrowser according to a user defined html file, which may be static or generated dynamically at compile time). Supported for Windows and Linux operating systems.

The program works as follows. The user will specify a source code file that they are actively modifying. A file-system-watcher is set to monitor this source code file for changes at the OS level (an event is triggered in this AutoCompile program whenever the source code file is saved). Any changes to the source code trigger AutoComile to compile the latest version of the source code and display the results.

The compile process is performed by executing a batch file (windows) or shell script (linux) that the user provides. This batch file / shell script contains the command-line command (or set of commands) required for the compile process of this specific source code. It may be call to a make utility, invoke an interpreter to read a script, or any other compile process the user desires. The batch file / shell script may call any arbitrary program after the compilation has completed if post-processing is required on the outputs resulting fom the compile. This post-processing may be a call to a documentation generator (e.g. Doxygen) to create HTML documentation to display. Alternatively, any other program that takes the results of the compile to render in a html webpage may be used. For example, suppose a Python script is invoked to generate a graph that is saved as a .jpeg image. A simple website may be constructed with a < img src=... > tag to display the image. Alternatively, one may desire to generate a website to graphically display the results (PASS/FAIL) of unit tests run on the source code.

The console output of the latest execution of the compile script is displayed in addition to the html-style preview.

For best results, it is recommended that the source code being edited is done so with an editor that intercepts the keydown event and saves the contents of the file each key stroke. (I have other projects that have this functionality.) In this way, every character changed in the code triggers a save and therefore compile event; thus ensuring that output display information or unit test results are made available at the earliest possible instant. This rapid feedback facilitates time-efficient test-driven development and/or real-time graphical feedback.

This program has been used in conjunction with the Python module matplot lib to create programmatically-defined 2D and 3D .svg diagrams with a user interface similar to that of OpenSCAD. To speed development when starting new projects, it is recommended that AutoCompile be used with a utility that can generate templates of .bat .sh .html and source code files (as a starting point for the project code base) once the user has selected the project type (circuit diagram, 2D SVG image, 3D SV image, Python class, Python console application, Python GUI application, ...). Such a program is planned for development soon.

To clean up the mess that would otherwise be created in the source code folder (by generating .bat .sh and .html files for every source code file modified), files created in the AutoCompile process are archived into a .zip file that lives in the folder with the source code (which is used to store an archive of the change history when used in conjunction with the auto-save on key-press text editor project).

This implementation is written in Python, making use of wxPython (i.e. wxWidgets) and Scintilla. As such, it may be eventually re-written in c++ for improved performance in both Windows and Linux. It also has some custom algorithms for file system indexing and autocomplete suggestions of filename when a substring match is entered into the filename textbox.

Please note that for automatic filename suggestions while you type in the filename text box, you must be running the FileIndexService (also a project in my GitHub) to service these filename suggestion requests.
